docs/index.asciidoc, before:

:plugin: memcached
:type: filter

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Memcached filter plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

The Memcached filter provides integration with external data in Memcached.

It currently provides the following facilities:

 * `get`: get values for one or more memcached keys and inject them into the event at the
 provided paths
 
 * `set`: set values from the event to the corresponding memcached keys
 
==== Examples
 
This plugin enables key/value lookup enrichment against a Memcached object
caching system. You can use this plugin to query for a value, and set it if not
found.

===== GET example

[source,txt]
-----
memcached {
    hosts => ["localhost"]
    namespace => "convert_mm"
    get => {
      "%{millimeters}" => "[inches]"
    }
    add_tag => ["from_cache"]
    id => "memcached-get"
  }
-----

===== SET example

[source,txt]
-----
memcached {
    hosts => ["localhost"]
    namespace => "convert_mm"
    set => {
      "[inches]" => "%{millimeters}"
    }
    id => "memcached-set"
  }
-----
 
[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Memcached Filter Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-hosts>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-namespace>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-get>> |<<hash,hash>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set>> |<<hash,hash>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl>> |<<number,number>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
filter plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-hosts"]
===== `hosts`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `localhost`

The `hosts` parameter accepts an array of addresses corresponding to memcached instances.

Hosts can be specified via FQDN (e.g., `example.com`), an IPV4 address (e.g., `123.45.67.89`), or an IPV6 address (e.g. `::1` or `2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334`).
If your memcached host uses a non-standard port, the port can be specified by appending a colon (`:`) and the port number; to include a port with an IPv6 address, the address must first be wrapped in square-brackets (`[` and `]`), e.g., `[::1]:11211`.

If more than one host is specified, requests will be distributed to the given hosts using a modulus of the CRC-32 checksum of each key.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-namespace"]
===== `namespace`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, prefix all memcached keys with the given string followed by a colon (`:`); this is useful if all keys being used by this plugin share a common prefix.

Example:

In the following configuration, we would GET `fruit:banana` and `fruit:apple` from memcached:
----
filter {
  memcached {
    namespace => "fruit"
    get => {
      "banana" => "[fruit-stats][banana]"
      "apple"  => "[fruit-stats][apple]
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-get"]
===== `get`

  * Value type is <<hash,hash>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, get the values for the given keys from memcached, and store them in the corresponding fields on the event.

  * keys are interpolated (e.g., if the event has a field `foo` with value `bar`, the key `sand/%{foo}` will evaluate to `sand/bar`)
  * fields can be nested references

----
filter {
  memcached {
    get => {
      "memcached-key-1" => "field1"
      "memcached-key-2" => "[nested][field2]"
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set"]
===== `set`

  * Value type is <<hash,hash>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, extracts the values from the given event fields, and sets the corresponding keys to those values in memcached with the configured <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl,ttl>>

  * keys are interpolated (e.g., if the event has a field `foo` with value `bar`, the key `sand/%{foo}` will evaluate to `sand/bar`)
  * fields can be nested references

----
filter {
  memcached {
    set => {
      "field1"           => "memcached-key-1"
      "[nested][field2]" => "memcached-key-2"
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure"]
===== `tag_on_failure`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * The default value for this setting is `_memcached_failure`.

When a memcached operation causes a runtime exception to be thrown within the plugin,
the operation is safely aborted without crashing the plugin, and the event is
tagged with the provided value.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl"]
===== `ttl`

For usages of this plugin that persist data to memcached (e.g., <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set,`set`>>), the time-to-live in seconds

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * The default value is `0` (no expiry)


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

docs: add unix socket
add information about using unix sockets

docs/index.asciidoc, after:

:plugin: memcached
:type: filter

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Memcached filter plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

The Memcached filter provides integration with external data in Memcached.

It currently provides the following facilities:

 * `get`: get values for one or more memcached keys and inject them into the event at the
 provided paths
 
 * `set`: set values from the event to the corresponding memcached keys
 
==== Examples
 
This plugin enables key/value lookup enrichment against a Memcached object
caching system. You can use this plugin to query for a value, and set it if not
found.

===== GET example

[source,txt]
-----
memcached {
    hosts => ["localhost"]
    namespace => "convert_mm"
    get => {
      "%{millimeters}" => "[inches]"
    }
    add_tag => ["from_cache"]
    id => "memcached-get"
  }
-----

===== SET example

[source,txt]
-----
memcached {
    hosts => ["localhost"]
    namespace => "convert_mm"
    set => {
      "[inches]" => "%{millimeters}"
    }
    id => "memcached-set"
  }
-----
 
[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Memcached Filter Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-hosts>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-namespace>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-get>> |<<hash,hash>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set>> |<<hash,hash>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl>> |<<number,number>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
filter plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-hosts"]
===== `hosts`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `localhost`

The `hosts` parameter accepts an array of addresses corresponding to memcached instances.

Hosts can be specified via FQDN (e.g., `example.com`), an IPV4 address (e.g., `123.45.67.89`), an IPV6 address (e.g. `::1` or `2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334`), or a UNIX socket (e.g. `/var/run/memcached/memcached.sock`).
If your memcached host uses a non-standard port, the port can be specified by appending a colon (`:`) and the port number; to include a port with an IPv6 address, the address must first be wrapped in square-brackets (`[` and `]`), e.g., `[::1]:11211`.

If more than one host is specified, requests will be distributed to the given hosts using a modulus of the CRC-32 checksum of each key.

If using a UNIX socket, the user running Logstash needs to have read and write permissions to the socket file.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-namespace"]
===== `namespace`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, prefix all memcached keys with the given string followed by a colon (`:`); this is useful if all keys being used by this plugin share a common prefix.

Example:

In the following configuration, we would GET `fruit:banana` and `fruit:apple` from memcached:
----
filter {
  memcached {
    namespace => "fruit"
    get => {
      "banana" => "[fruit-stats][banana]"
      "apple"  => "[fruit-stats][apple]
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-get"]
===== `get`

  * Value type is <<hash,hash>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, get the values for the given keys from memcached, and store them in the corresponding fields on the event.

  * keys are interpolated (e.g., if the event has a field `foo` with value `bar`, the key `sand/%{foo}` will evaluate to `sand/bar`)
  * fields can be nested references

----
filter {
  memcached {
    get => {
      "memcached-key-1" => "field1"
      "memcached-key-2" => "[nested][field2]"
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set"]
===== `set`

  * Value type is <<hash,hash>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

If specified, extracts the values from the given event fields, and sets the corresponding keys to those values in memcached with the configured <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl,ttl>>

  * keys are interpolated (e.g., if the event has a field `foo` with value `bar`, the key `sand/%{foo}` will evaluate to `sand/bar`)
  * fields can be nested references

----
filter {
  memcached {
    set => {
      "field1"           => "memcached-key-1"
      "[nested][field2]" => "memcached-key-2"
    }
  }
}
----

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-tag_on_failure"]
===== `tag_on_failure`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * The default value for this setting is `_memcached_failure`.

When a memcached operation causes a runtime exception to be thrown within the plugin,
the operation is safely aborted without crashing the plugin, and the event is
tagged with the provided value.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-ttl"]
===== `ttl`

For usages of this plugin that persist data to memcached (e.g., <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-set,`set`>>), the time-to-live in seconds

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * The default value is `0` (no expiry)


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]
